hello and welcome to Aviation 101 with
Laura today we're going to be talking
about how to get ready for your
technical interview and this is some
information that came to me from some of
the people I know who recently
interviewed with a regional Airline and
they gave me a bunch of information
about what kind of questions were asked
and so this video is intended to help
you practice and think through the
things you know before you go into that
technical interview I'm not going to
talk about interviewing skills or
anything more like what kind of
questions were they asked at their
specific Regional Airline interview and
they reported that it was about like a
30 minute interview type slot so not
super long or anything but the typical
areas that I would expect you to get is
topics about Jefferson charts special
airport diagrams approach charts to 10
n- 10 -9 japson page SIDS and stars we
are going to go over some of the airport
diagram and the Sid and star possibly
gotcha type stuff not I'm not going to
go over approach charts I have other
videos on that that I can link to in the
video description along with the 10-9
page and how to use it part 121
regulations um was a little bit of the
things they were asked the meteorology
there's some meteorology
questions and a few little questions on
aeronautical decision making so key for
that pick the safest answer think about
what they're asking and pick the safest
type of option that is in line with what
you would expect for how you need to
behave as an airline pilot I really want
to focus and dive in on the airport
diagram things
first so what I would recommend is
looking at the specific Regional that
you're interviewing with and doing your
research looking at their main Hub
airports because they might Focus their
questions on those type of airports so
here we have a picture of DFW Airport
diagram let's just start with this what
is this well that is the airport Beacon
the little star with a circle okay what
is this down here that is the blast
pad down there at the end of the runway
it actually looks a little bit different
than some other pieces of the end of the
runway but that is a blast pad okay uh
what about this this really stumped one
of the people I talked to there's like
this strange line of weird jaggy things
I kind of think they look like
telephones what that is is that we have
half the airport on one control tower
and ground frequency and the other on a
different one and that is the boundary
where you would switch from one
frequency to the other frequency and you
can see it goes the whole length of DFW
Yeah so basically divides it in half and
um if you look off in the
side the same type symbol is used I
don't know this person was kind of
nervous so just missed that but yeah
that is your division of Communications
in the middle of an airport kind of
weird how about this so you know
questions on approach light systems like
what's the difference between the
approach light system of 18 right and
then right next to it at 18
left well this one here at the end of 18
right is the alsf 2 used for lower
visibility approaches it's going to have
some red side row bars on it whereas the
one for one8
left is not going to have those bars and
that is just the probably a Mouser
although I didn't look it up but you can
see from looking at that there is a
difference between 18 right 1 18 left of
the approach light system so I would
know about that this next area that I've
marked This Is How They will display a
displaced threshold okay so it looks a
little different than the blast pad the
blast pad has like little lines on it
you can see that at the end of 17 right
but here at the end of 13 left we have a
displaced threshold
here is example of the meler that I was
talking about before but I would know
the differences between these Runway
Lighting systems or approach light
systems what about this thing it's kind
of buried under the middle of terminal
C the ARP that is the airport reference
point so that is a good one to know too
the airport reference
point and it's a little circle with a
crosshairs I've got another example on a
different airport that you can see
better this one's like I said buried
under Terminal C and the parking
garage all right so let me look at
another airport that you could be asked
about here we have Miami Florida this
one I've pulled up because it's got a
bunch of random little red
circles okay and we have this one up
here we have hot spot number four hs4
that is a Runway incursion Hots spot now
most people would know that and and the
people who were in the interview they
actually knew that they were totally on
it they were like oh that's a Runway
incursion hot spot okay fine uh but also
point out and this would be good that
you can find the detail this airport at
myami has a lot of detail this does look
like a very confusing intersection but
we have um the
intersection of multiple taxiways coming
in right there so that's all fine and
the people being interviewed got that
part right but then the interviewer said
hey like what what why you know why is
that the hotspot reference and so it
turned out that there is I didn't even
know this but on the 10-9 airport
information page there is more detail on
why each of the runway hotspots has been
designated so be aware of that and you
will totally impress your interview
people okay we also have a better view
here of the airport reference point or
the ARP and you can see that is
basically the geographical middle of the
airport so um it's that circle with the
little crosshairs in it okay cool now um
let me move into discussion of Sids and
stars so here's a
star like I said it would be smart to
study the airport hubs that whatever
Regional you're interviewing with might
be using or airports they have a lot of
flights too so first I want to talk
about like this right here at leton
intersection and you should know what
those bars mean okay at 290 knots that
makes sense but the flight level 3000
and the flight level 2 40 with the bar
basically expecting to cross Lettin
intersection between flight level
3000 but no lower than flight Level 240
and of course this is going to be
assigned by
ATC um what
about and this kind of stumped um one of
the people who did the interview there's
a little zubov intersection let me go
ahead and Mark it with my pen zubov
intersection and what confused the
interview here is the little one I think
he was just got a little bit of tunnel
vision but that little number one above
zubab they the interviewer was like
where what is that so right below zubab
and I've got an arrow pointing at it
there's too much congestion in the chart
area so it's just another of those
planning altitudes so planning to cross
zubov between flight Level 240 and
flight level
20 that would be what ATC is going to
expect you to be able to do right there
so that is a little one um that you see
with the zubov jeon technically calls
those a ball flag but
anyway all right what about this at
Joven
intersection um and victory why I have
marked those okay well at Victory
intersection it's not a number one above
it it's a letter H above it and what is
that about so the H actually points you
down to an area down below that has
different holding patterns depicted
because again the chart is too congested
they can't show all the holding patterns
that you might receive at these fixes
but they are predetermined holding
patterns so you would want to be able to
match those up to the associated one
below the chart example question you
might be asked okay you're at
28,000 feet coming in when should you
start a descent to cross Joven at the
minimum altitude
okay that requires me to know that the
minimum altitude at Joven is 13,000 ft
all right so we need to lose from 28,000
ft and I'm just making up numbers here
minus 13 so just drop the zeros make it
easy okay 28 Minus 13 is 15 if I've done
my math right not always that great in
math but anyway
15 feet thousand feet to lose
the 3:1 rule then says after you've
dropped the zeros multiply however many
feet is left so the 15 multiply it by
three and that gives you nautical miles
approximately before your fix where you
should begin your descent so that's the
3: one rule so start your descent at 45
miles before Joe them in this example
that I've given here but they might ask
that on any of these fixes so I would
just be aware you know drop the zeros do
the math subtract how many feet to lose
multiply by three and that gives you
nautical miles approximately before that
fix and that should generally work for
type of aircraft you'd be flying at a
regional and that's what they're
expecting you to do okay meteorology and
part 121 regulations so some random
things that uh these people were asked
about meteorology included the three
phases of a thunderstorm
I love it I teach meteorology so the
cumulus phase sometimes called T
towering cumulus the mature phase and
then the dissipating phase and the
interviewee they didn't elaborate on the
thunderstorm phases they just said the
three phases just like I said moved
right on so not even like requesting
more about that rvr and controlling
visibility this would be really a dig
into opspec
c78 the jepperson 10-9 Pages how do
those interact how does that different
for a part 121 departure versus a part
91 departure again I'm not going to
unpack that here I have a whole video
that unpack it it's actually one of my
most popular videos so I'll place a link
down below this video so check that out
they were also asked about the three
types of icing clear rhyme mixed again
not like a bunch of detail
it's just things that you probably
should know as a pilot things that FAA T
question type of things ask again they
can go into however much detail but yeah
three types of icing when is a takeoff
alternate required that's 12167 straight
up again got a video about that I'll
link to that in the description and you
can do more digging on your own for that
one questions about the legality of
atc's reported visibility versus the
minimum visibility printed on an
approach chart aha now we have to go
back to the definition of flight
visibility so flight visibility if you
look at 1.1 a 14 CFR that means that the
flight visibility is determined by the
pilot in Flight by seeing prominent
objects on the ground and so atc's
reported visibility again this is a 121
Rule and I'll probably need to make
another video about this because this
would be a good one but ATC reported
visibility is sometimes controlling if
you are before the Final Approach fix in
a 121 operation but after you pass the
Final Approach fix then it's up to the
pilot to determine what is the flight
visibility so that's a good distinction
to make so make sure you're aware of
that and if you're not familiarize
yourself random stuff asked about
temporary certificate duration 120 days
okay medical certificate duration well
I'm not going to go into all that as you
can look it up in 14 zfr okay finding
the usable runway length from an
intersection departure point almost like
a combination of looking at a airport
diagram and combining it with the 10-9
page or the 10-9 a typically page where
uh jepperson will list out various
possible Runway intersection departures
and how much takeoff distance is
available and this was like super weird
uh they were asked about a Airway that
said BR for its twetter prefix
apparently it's a Bahama route I'm not
going to say that I knew that so there's
a lot of different route prefixes
besides Q roots and T roots and Jet
roots and Victor Airways so I will link
to a helpful article I found from IFR
Magazine online that explains a lot of
the various prefixes that you can see
because I'm not going to unpack all of
them but that brings up a good one if
you have no idea what they're asking
just say I I don't know most likely
they're going to move on to another
question again get familiar with that
airport and or the airlines operations
and their hubs get familiar with them
because that's possibly what they're
going to ask you and be able to kind of
walk through or talk through a arrival
or a departure a sid or Star talk
through those because they're going to
want to see that you're familiar and
especially especially know your jeppeson
charts okay if you've never looked at
jeppeson charts now would be the time to
start don't expect to go in there and
use the
fais charts that you may have been using
for your flight training you really need
to get a hold of Jefferson and start
learning it thanks for watching Aviation
101 with Laura if you've got other
technical interview tips I'd love to
hear about it so put it in the comments
and share it with everybody else have a
great day